Update README.md (#9735)
ddnet/ddnet: README.md

If you want to learn about the source code, you can check the [Development](https://wiki.ddnet.org/wiki/Development) article on the wiki.

## Cloning

> To clone this repository with no history and external libraries: (~700 MiB):

Reviewer: with external libraries and no history

Author: Are you saying they should be swapped?

If so, then I agree since it's ambigious if "no" includes "external libraries"

It's technically correct as it is now

line 20:
```md
To clone this repository with no history and external libraries: (~700 MiB):

'''sh
git clone --depth 1 --recursive --shallow-submodules https://github.com/ddnet/ddnet
'''

To clone this repository with no history when you have the necessary libraries on your system already: (~150 MiB):

'''sh
git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/ddnet/ddnet
'''
```

```sh
git clone --depth 1 --recursive --shallow-submodules https://github.com/ddnet/ddnet
```

To clone this repository when you have the necessary libraries on your system already with no history: (~150 MiB):

```sh
git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/ddnet/ddnet
```

To clone this repository with external libraries and full history (~1 GiB):

```sh
git clone --recursive https://github.com/ddnet/ddnet
```

To clone this repository when you have the necessary libraries on your system already with full history (~450 MiB):

```sh
git clone https://github.com/ddnet/ddnet
```

To clone this repository since we moved the libraries to https://github.com/ddnet/ddnet-libs with history (~250 MiB):

```sh
git clone --shallow-exclude=included-libs https://github.com/ddnet/ddnet
```

To clone the libraries if you have previously cloned DDNet without them, or if you require the ddnet-libs history instead of a shallow clone:

```sh
git submodule update --init --recursive
```

> ## Dependencies on Linux / macOS

Reviewer 2: I prefer the old style over the new style when reading the README without markdown rendering.

Why did you change it to use `##` instead of underlines?

Author: Purely subjective, but here's why I prefer `##`:
* I see `##` much more often
* Using `---` means you need to put as many `-` as there are characters in the line which only works in monospace, there are places in this file where there isn't
* only h1 and h2 are possible with the style
* Is used in [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/ddnet/ddnet/blob/c3b755d03d72ca20e63922d9dff2c94f6310a0c3/CONTRIBUTING.md)

You can install the required libraries on your system, `touch CMakeLists.txt` and CMake will use the system-wide libraries by default. You can install all required dependencies and CMake on Debian or Ubuntu like this:

```sh

> sudo apt install build-essential cargo cmake git glslang-tools google-mock libavcodec-extra libavdevice-dev libavfilter-dev libavformat-dev libavutil-dev libcurl4-openssl-dev libfreetype6-dev libglew-dev libnotify-dev libogg-dev libopus-dev libopusfile-dev libpng-dev libsdl2-dev libsqlite3-dev libssl-dev libvulkan-dev libwavpack-dev libx264-dev python3 rustc spirv-tools

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
sudo apt install build-essential cargo cmake git glslang-tools google-mock libavcodec-extra libavdevice-dev libavfilter-dev libavformat-dev libavutil-dev libcurl4-openssl-dev libfreetype6-dev libglew-dev libnotify-dev libogg-dev libopus-dev libopusfile-dev libpng-dev libsdl2-dev libsqlite3-dev libssl-dev libvulkan-dev libwavpack-dev libx264-dev ninja-build python3 rustc spirv-tools
```

```

On older distributions like Ubuntu 18.04 don't install `google-mock`, but instead set `-DDOWNLOAD_GTEST=ON` when building to get a more recent gtest/gmock version.

On older distributions `rustc` version might be too old, to get an up-to-date Rust compiler you can use [rustup](https://rustup.rs/) with stable channel instead or try the `rustc-mozilla` package.

Or on CentOS, RedHat and AlmaLinux like this:

```sh

> sudo yum install cargo cmake ffmpeg-devel freetype-devel gcc gcc-c++ git glew-devel glslang gmock-devel gtest-devel libcurl-devel libnotify-devel libogg-devel libpng-devel libx264-devel make openssl-devel opus-devel opusfile-devel python2 rust SDL2-devel spirv-tools sqlite-devel vulkan-devel wavpack-devel

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
sudo yum install cargo cmake ffmpeg-devel freetype-devel gcc gcc-c++ git glew-devel glslang gmock-devel gtest-devel libcurl-devel libnotify-devel libogg-devel libpng-devel libx264-devel ninja-build openssl-devel opus-devel opusfile-devel python2 rust SDL2-devel spirv-tools sqlite-devel vulkan-devel wavpack-devel
```

```

Or on Fedora like this:

```sh

> sudo dnf install cargo cmake ffmpeg-devel freetype-devel gcc gcc-c++ git glew-devel glslang gmock-devel gtest-devel libcurl-devel libnotify-devel libogg-devel libpng-devel make openssl-devel opus-devel opusfile-devel python2 SDL2-devel spirv-tools sqlite-devel vulkan-devel wavpack-devel x264-devel

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
sudo dnf install cargo cmake ffmpeg-devel freetype-devel gcc gcc-c++ git glew-devel glslang gmock-devel gtest-devel libcurl-devel libnotify-devel libogg-devel libpng-devel make ninja-build openssl-devel opus-devel opusfile-devel python2 SDL2-devel spirv-tools sqlite-devel vulkan-devel wavpack-devel x264-devel
```

```

Or on Arch Linux like this:

```sh

> sudo pacman -S --needed base-devel cmake curl ffmpeg freetype2 git glew glslang gmock libnotify libpng opusfile python rust sdl2 spirv-tools sqlite vulkan-headers vulkan-icd-loader wavpack x264

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
sudo pacman -S --needed base-devel cmake curl ffmpeg freetype2 git glew glslang gmock libnotify libpng ninja opusfile python rust sdl2 spirv-tools sqlite vulkan-headers vulkan-icd-loader wavpack x264
```

```

Or on Gentoo like this:

```sh

> emerge --ask dev-db/sqlite dev-lang/rust-bin dev-libs/glib dev-libs/openssl dev-util/glslang dev-util/spirv-headers dev-util/spirv-tools media-libs/freetype media-libs/glew media-libs/libglvnd media-libs/libogg media-libs/libpng media-libs/libsdl2 media-libs/libsdl2[vulkan] media-libs/opus media-libs/opusfile media-libs/pnglite media-libs/vulkan-loader[layers] media-sound/wavpack media-video/ffmpeg net-misc/curl x11-libs/gdk-pixbuf x11-libs/libnotify

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
emerge --ask dev-build/ninja dev-db/sqlite dev-lang/rust-bin dev-libs/glib dev-libs/openssl dev-util/glslang dev-util/spirv-headers dev-util/spirv-tools media-libs/freetype media-libs/glew media-libs/libglvnd media-libs/libogg media-libs/libpng media-libs/libsdl2 media-libs/libsdl2[vulkan] media-libs/opus media-libs/opusfile media-libs/pnglite media-libs/vulkan-loader[layers] media-sound/wavpack media-video/ffmpeg net-misc/curl x11-libs/gdk-pixbuf x11-libs/libnotify
```

```

On macOS you can use [homebrew](https://brew.sh/) to install build dependencies like this:

```sh

> brew install cmake ffmpeg freetype glew glslang googletest libpng molten-vk opusfile rust SDL2 spirv-tools vulkan-headers wavpack x264

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
brew install cmake ffmpeg freetype glew glslang googletest libpng molten-vk ninja opusfile rust SDL2 spirv-tools vulkan-headers wavpack x264
```

```

If you don't want to use the system libraries, you can pass the `-DPREFER_BUNDLED_LIBS=ON` parameter to cmake.

## Building on Linux and macOS

To compile DDNet yourself, execute the following commands in the source root:

```sh

> cmake -Bbuild
> cmake --build build # Add -j to use all cores, don't use this if you have a server running

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
cmake -Bbuild -GNinja
cmake --build build
```

Please implement #9608 by using Ninja here.

```

> To run the tests you must target `run_tests` with make:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To run the tests you can build the target `run_tests` using
```

> ```sh
> make run_tests
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`cmake --build build --target run_tests`
```
I don't think it needs whole code block.

Author: A lot of other one liners are in code blocks, I feel like this should be too

## Code formatting

We use clang-format 10 to format the C++ code of this project. Execute `scripts/fix_style.py` after changing the code to ensure code is formatted properly, a GitHub central style checker will do the same and prevent your change from being submitted.

On Arch Linux you can install clang-format 10 using the [clang-format-static-bin AUR package](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/clang-format-static-bin/) with [yay](https://github.com/Jguer/yay#Binary):

```sh
yay -S clang-format-static-bin
```

Or on macOS you can install clang-format 10 using a [homebrew tap](https://github.com/r-lib/homebrew-taps):

```sh
brew install r-lib/taps/clang-format@10
sudo ln -s /opt/homebrew/Cellar/clang-format@10/10.0.1/bin/clang-format /opt/homebrew/bin/clang-format-10
```

## Using AddressSanitizer + UndefinedBehaviourSanitizer or Valgrind's Memcheck

ASan+UBSan and Memcheck are useful to find code problems more easily. Please use them to test your changes if you can.

For ASan+UBSan compile with:

```sh

> CC=clang CXX=clang++ CXXFLAGS="-fsanitize=address,undefined -fsanitize-recover=address,undefined -fno-omit-frame-pointer" CFLAGS="-fsanitize=address,undefined -fsanitize-recover=address,undefined -fno-omit-frame-pointer" cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug -Bbuild
> cmake --build build # Add -j to use all cores, don't use this if you have a server running

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CC=clang CXX=clang++ CXXFLAGS="-fsanitize=address,undefined -fsanitize-recover=address,undefined -fno-omit-frame-pointer" CFLAGS="-fsanitize=address,undefined -fsanitize-recover=address,undefined -fno-omit-frame-pointer" cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug -Bbuild -GNinja
cmake --build build
```

[diskdev\_cmds](http://pkgs.fedoraproject.org/repo/pkgs/hfsplus-tools/diskdev_cmds-540.1.linux3.tar.gz/0435afc389b919027b69616ad1b05709/diskdev_cmds-540.1.linux3.tar.gz)
to unlock the `package_dmg` target that outputs a macOS disk image.

## Importing the official DDNet Database

```sh
$ wget https://ddnet.org/stats/ddnet-sql.zip
$ unzip ddnet-sql.zip
$ yaourt -S mariadb mysql-connector-c++
$ mysql_install_db --user=mysql --basedir=/usr --datadir=/var/lib/mysql

> $ sudo systemctl start mariadb

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ systemctl start mariadb
```
I have the suspicion that other commands here must be run as root, so I'd not single out a single one if others might also need it — unless you tried it of course and this was the only one needing root.

Author: `$` suggests user whereas `#` suggests root

wget, unzip don't require root

[yaort (now deprecated)](https://github.com/archlinuxfr/yaourt) does but should be replaced with `yay` which doesn't require root (but it calls sudo)

`mysql_install_db` probbaly needs root to touch /usr or /var/lib

Author: I'm trying to run it now but the zip is pretty hefty

Author: systemctl will use polkit to get root perms if available (normally is)

Reviewer 2: > I'm trying to run it now but the zip is pretty hefty

Maybe you can run everything except the part with the zip.

add_sqlserver w teeworlds record teeworlds "PW2" "localhost" "3306"

> $ cmake -Bbuild -DMYSQL=ON

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ cmake -Bbuild -DMYSQL=ON -GNinja
```

> $ cmake --build build --target DDNet-Server # add -j to use all cores, don't do on running servers

Reviewer 3: What's the context behind this? When do you rebuild a running server? Is this for the `-j` flag ?

Author: You ddos yourself if you use -j while on a running server

Reviewer 3: I'm just confused where people rebuild a server while having another Independent one running - this comment feels off imo.

Reviewer 3: Or at least reword it:

"Don't use -j while you have other servers running"
"Don't use all cores while you have a server running"

Author: a suprising number of people ssh into servers which are considered "running" when their service is running not the machine.
if the server (or any important service) is running then having intensive cpu loads will slow it down. the wording is a bit off but thats what i felt would come across acurately to most people, i agree the wording is a bit iffy
i'll change it to "Add -j to use all cores, don't use this if you have a server running"

> $ cmake --build build --target DDNet-Server # Add -j to use all cores, don't use this if you have a server running

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ cmake --build build --target DDNet-Server
```

$ build/DDNet-Server -f mine.cfg
```

<a href="https://repology.org/metapackage/ddnet/versions">
	<img src="https://repology.org/badge/vertical-allrepos/ddnet.svg?header=" alt="Packaging status" align="right">
</a>

## Installation from Repository

Debian/Ubuntu

```sh
sudo apt-get install ddnet
```

MacOS

```sh

> sudo brew install --cask ddnet

Reviewer 2: Does `brew` need sudo?

Author: oops no
